  * Home
  * About
  * Contact Us
  * Subscribe

Cloud News Daily

Computing data and power is moving to Cloud Computing - We'll keep you informed

Apache UIMA, Hadoop Bolster IBM’s ‘Smartest Machine on Earth’ in Man vs.
Machine Competition on Jeopardy!

by Richard on February 14, 2011

The Apache Software Foundation (ASF), the all-volunteer developers, stewards,
and incubators of nearly 150 Open Source projects and initiatives, today
announced that Apache UIMA and Apache Hadoop play key roles in the data
intelligence and analytic proficiency of the IBM Watson supercomputer, playing
against human champions on the TV show “Jeopardy!”.

Processing 80 trillion operations (teraflops) per second, Watson will access
200 million pages of content against 6 million logic rules to “understand” the
nuances, meanings, and patterns in spoken human language, and compete in the
trivia game show Jeopardy!. Contestants are presented with clues in the form of
answers, and must phrase their responses as questions within a 5-second
timeframe.

Hundreds of Apache UIMA Annotators and thousands of algorithms help Watson
–which runs disconnected from the Internet– access vast databases to
simultaneously comprehend clues and formulate answers. Watson then analyzes 500
gigabytes of preprocessed information to match potential meanings for the
question and a potential answer to the question. Helping Watson do this is:

  * Apache UIMA: standards-based frameworks, infrastructure and components that
    facilitate the analysis and annotation of an array of unstructured content
    (such as text, audio and video). Watson uses Apache UIMA for real-time
    content analytics and natural language processing, to comprehend clues,
    find possible answers, gather supporting evidence, score each answer,
    compute its confidence in each answer, and improve contextual understanding
    (machine learning) – all under 3 seconds.
  * Apache Hadoop: software framework that enables data-intensive distributed
    applications to work with thousands of nodes and petabytes of data. A
    foundation of Cloud computing, Apache Hadoop enables Watson to access,
    sort, and process data in a massively parallel system (90+ server cluster/
    2,880 processor cores/16 terabytes of RAM/4 terabytes of disk storage).

The Watson system uses UIMA as its principal infrastructure for component
interoperability and makes extensive use of the UIMA-AS scale-out capabilities
that can exploit modern, highly parallel hardware architectures. UIMA manages
all work flow and communication between processes, which are spread across the
cluster. Apache Hadoop manages the task of preprocessing Watson’s enormous
information sources by deploying UIMA pipelines as Hadoop mappers, running UIMA
analytics.

“The success and influence of Watson clearly shows that open source in general,
and specifically open source software developed and released by the ASF, is
deeply entwined in all layers and aspects of technology,” said ASF
President Jim Jagielski. “Apache software is part of computing and information
technology DNA, forming complete or integral solutions to advanced problems,
and leveraging the software under the non-restrictive Apache License allows for
extremely rapid development of cutting edge technology.”

Watson faces off against record-breaking (human) Jeopardy champions Ken
Jennings and Brad Rutter for the $1M grand prize 14-16 February 2011. 100% of
Watson’s winnings will be donated to charity; Rutter and Jennings have
committed to donating 50% of their prizes.

Availability

All ASF products, including Apache UIMA and Apache Hadoop, are available to the
public free of charge under the Apache Software License v2.0. Downloads,
documentation, and related resources are available at http://www.apache.org/.

About The Apache Software Foundation (ASF)

Established in 1999, the all-volunteer Foundation oversees nearly one hundred
fifty leading Open Source projects, including Apache HTTP Server — the world’s
most popular Web server software. Through the ASF’s meritocratic process known
as “The Apache Way,” more than 300 individual Members and 2,500 Committers
successfully collaborate to develop freely available enterprise-grade software,
benefiting millions of users worldwide: thousands of software solutions are
distributed under the Apache License; and the community actively participates
in ASF mailing lists, mentoring initiatives, and ApacheCon, the Foundation’s
official user conference, trainings, and expo. The ASF is a US 501(3)(c)
not-for-profit charity, funded by individual donations and corporate sponsors
including AMD, Basis Technology, Cloudera, Facebook, Google, IBM, HP, Matt
Mullenweg, Microsoft, SpringSource, and Yahoo!. For more information, visit 
http://www.apache.org/.

[pixy]

Tagged as: Apache Software Foundation, Hadoop, IBM, Open source, UIMA

Previous post: Zscaler Unveils Cloud Security for Mobile Devices

Next post: Ping Identity Integrates VeriSign Identity Protection Authentication
Service for Cloud-Based Single Sign-On

iStock_000007224406XSmall.jpg

  * Search Cloud News

    [                    ] [Search]
  * FileZoomer for S3
  * 
  * Catagories

      + Advertising
      + Amazon AWS
      + Asia/Pacific Rim
      + Audio
      + Awards
      + Big Data
      + Business Intelligence
      + Business Processes
      + CaaS
      + Cloud Computing
      + Collaboration
      + Computer Electronics
      + Computer Hardware
      + Computer Software
      + Consulting
      + Content Management
      + Customer Relationship Management
      + DaaS
      + Disaster Recovery/Business Continuity
      + Document Management
      + Education
      + EMEA
      + Free
      + General
      + Government
      + Green
      + Guest Post
      + Hardware
      + High Performance Computing
      + High Tech Security
      + Hosting
      + Human Resources
      + Humor
      + Hybrid Cloud
      + IaaS
      + Intellectual Property
      + Internet Technology
      + IT Management
      + Legal
      + Location
      + M&A Activity
      + Machine to Machine (M2M)
      + Marketing
      + Medical
      + Messaging
      + Mobile
      + Multimedia & Internet
      + Networking
      + Open Source
      + Outage Alert
      + PaaS
      + Partnerships
      + Private Cloud
      + Research
      + Saas
      + Security
      + Semantic Web
      + Social
      + Standards
      + Start Up
      + Storage
      + Telecommunications Equipment
      + Telecommunications Industry
      + Tools
      + Uncategorized
      + User Story
      + Venture Funding
      + Video
      + Virtualization
      + Voice
      + Webinar/Webcast/Presentation
  * Tags

    Amazon EC2 Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud Amazon Web Services Android
    AppExchange Apple Application programming interface Back Office Backup Big
    Data Blackberry Business intelligence Cloud Computing Cloud Storage Company
    News Customer relationship management Data center Disaster Recovery
    Electronic health record Electronic medical record Enterprise resource
    planning Facebook Health Care High-performance computing IBM Identity
    management Information technology management iOS iPad iPhone iPod Touch IT
    service management Microsoft Microsoft SharePoint Open source OpenStack
    Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard Rackspace salesforce.com
    Security Single sign-on Software as a service Twitter Videoconferencing
    VMware
  * Recent Posts

      + Xerox, CHOICE Administrators Team to Deliver Health Insurance Exchanges
        for States
      + D & B and GlobalSoft Partner with Informatica to Power-Charge Customer
        Master Data
      + NextIO Gets $12.3 Million for Datacenter IO Consolidation
      + Keating Capital Invests $5 Million in SilkRoad Technology
      + Nuix Launches Legal Hold Solution with Technology Partner Zapproved

Get smart with the Thesis WordPress Theme from DIYthemes.

WordPress Admin

